# Bipower variation
24/Aug/2018

## Paper information
- [Power and Bipower Variation with Stochastic Volatility and Jumps (original paper link)](https://www.nuffield.ox.ac.uk/economics/papers/2003/w18/eric_may03.pdf)
- Ole E. Barndorff-Nielsen and Neil Shephard
- _Journal of Financial Econometrics_, 2004

## Abstract
This article shows that realized power variation and its extension, realized bipower variation, which we introduce here, are somewhat robust to rare jumps. 
We demonstrate that in special cases, realized bipower variation estimates integrated variance in stochastic volatility models, thus providing a model-free and consistent alternative to realized variance. 
Its robustness property means that if we have a stochastic volatility plus infrequent jumps process, then the difference between realized variance and realized bipower variation estimates the quadratic variation of the jump component. 
This seems to be the first method that can separate quadratic variation into its continuous and jump components. 
Various extensions are given, together with proofs of special cases of these results. Detailed mathematical results are reported in Barndorff-Nielsen and Shephard (2003a).

---

# Note
With all the black swans flying around, it is hard to model the market with continuous models. One of the most natural and obvious improvements, is to add jump process into the model. This paper by Barndorff-Nielsen and Shphard (BNS in the following) provide an jump detection method which is easy to implement and robust. There are later methods developed from this work, that I may cover later.

