# Heston and Nandi's GARCH based option pricing model
18/Aug/2018

## Paper Information
- [A Closed-Form GARCH Option Valuation Model (original paper link)](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=210009)
- Steven L. Heston, Saikat Nandi
- _Review of Financial Studies_, 2000

### Abstract
This paper develops a closed-form option valuation formula for a spot asset whose vari- ance follows a GARCH(p, q) process that can be correlated with the returns of the spot asset. It provides the first readily computed option formula for a random volatility model that can be estimated and implemented solely on the basis of observables. The single lag version of this model contains Heston’s (1993) stochastic volatility model as a continuous-time limit. Empirical analysis on S&P500 index options shows that the out-of-sample valuation errors from the single lag version of the GARCHmodel are sub- stantially lower than the ad hoc Black–Scholes model of Dumas, Fleming and Whaley (1998) that uses a separate implied volatility for each option to fit to the smirk/smile in implied volatilties. The GARCHmodel remains superior even though the parameters of the GARCHmodel are held constant and volatility is filtered from the history of asset prices while the ad hoc Black–Scholes model is updated every period. The improve- ment is largely due to the ability of the GARCHmodel to simultaneously capture the correlation of volatility with spot returns and the path dependence in volatility.

---
# Notes
The first paper in my storage, happens to be one of the papers that I am familar with.

The model proposed by Heston and Nandi here, denoted as HN model in the following, is one of the most important discrete option pricing model.
Similar to Heston's another model, aka the **Heston model** under the continuous setting, HN model has been the foundation of many more discrete model afterwards. 

OK, so much for the praise.

## Takeaway
Continuous-time stochastic volatility models, such as Heston model, has been widely used in practice. 
These models would assume volatility is an observable state variable or can be aquired from transformation of other observable values. However these implies estimation error from the filtration of discrete observations of spot asset prices or volatility measurements. Also an unfortunately fact is that reliable option markets are not always available, even sometimes your academic reviewer tells you:
```
"there should be this data".
```

GARCH, on the other hand, has the advantage that itself contains the variance process for each time-step. Then option price is able to be built solely from the spot price dynamics. HN model contributes to the literature that it constructs an GARCH structure that allows a closed-form solution for option price.

Compared with the Black-Scholes model (BS), HN is capable to capture the negative correlation of volatility with index return (S&P 500 in the empirical part of the paper), which generates the negative skewness in the distirbution and thus the volatility smile.

## Model
The logarithm spot price return _R(t+1) = x(t+1) - x(t) = log(S(t+1)) - log(S(t))_ and its variance _h(t)_ follow 
```
R(t+1) = r + lambda h(t+1) + sqrt{h(t+1)} z(t+1)
h(t+1) = omega + sum_{i=1}^p beta_i h(t-i+1) + sum_{i=1}^q alpha_i (z(t-i+1) - gamma_i sqrt{h(t-i+1)})^2
```
**OK, interest finding, GitHub markdown does not support Latex that well**

The vairnace process itself has the same property as the continuous Cox-Ingersoll-Ross model, therefore it by construction remain possitive, and the first-order process remains stationary with finite mean and variance if _beta + alpha gamma^2 < 1_.

Variance and spot return are correlated as
```
Cov_t [h(t+1),R(t)] = -2 alpha gamma h(t)
```

## Option pricing
Given the dynamic setting, we can then write the characteristic function of the process, or moment generating function as the original paper did. The characteristic function remains log-linear affine form for each time-step upto maturity.

Then as we know, the inverse Fourier trasformation of a characteristic function is the probability density function, and then option price can be derived from there.

## Some comments
In the original paper, the result are promising if you weekly update the GARCH parameters. That is, instead of estimate the parameters through Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE) on the spot price, you calibrate the paramter by minimizing the non-linear least squred error against market options prices. This is based on the idea that historical spot price does not contain the information of future movements of return and variance. So extracing information from the forward looking option price is better. It also means sacrificing the advantage that HN model could been used in the situation that option price is not available.

The un-updated HN model itself does not perform that well, when not combined with other techniques. And it's outcomes are quite sticky to the parameters, i.e. if parameters stay the same, the generated volatility smile are stable, even return and return fluctuate.


---
[back to home](../README.md)
